---
layout: post
title: MacOS App Surival Kit - Apps I cannot live without
published: true
date: 2020-03-28
permalink: post/macos-app-survival-kit
---

These are the apps and toolls that I cannot live without, broken down into
various categories.  I spend the first waking moments with a new Mac setting
all of these up.

All of these mac apps are carefully desgined, tested, and developed with such
incredible levels of quality. And as such sometimes carry a price-tag, but as a
developer myself, I want to support the developers that go above and beyond.
Plus I am more than willing to pay for convenience, productivity, and privacy.

The terminal emulators and terminal tools are all free and open
source.

## Privacy

#### Little Snitch 4 ($45)

Crazy powerful firewall to get insight into how apps are using the internet. I
use it to block trackers, block certain apps from talking to the internet (like
clipboard managers), and for monitoring any new outbound connections

<https://www.obdev.at/products/littlesnitch/index.html>

#### Micro Snitch ($5)

Micro Snitch is a menu bar application that will notify you whenever your
camera or microphone become active. Can be bought as a bundle with Little
Snitch. This is what I use instead of taping my webcam.

<https://www.obdev.at/products/microsnitch/index.html>

#### Cookie.app ($19.99)

Cookie.app allows you take control over the cookies in your browser (supports
multiple browsers) by removing tracking cookies, removing blacklisted cookies,
or setting up whitelists and removing everything else. 

I hate invasive adtech, tracking your every click, web visit, purchases,
interactions just to shove ads down your throat. One way to reduce the amount
of tracking is by only using your browser (Safari) in incognito mode. But there
are certain types of websites that I would prefer to stay signed-in on (usually
mostly related to work). Cookie.app allowed me to take control of my privacy.

<https://www.cookieapp.com>

## Productivity

#### Maccy (free and OSS)

Clipboard managers are a life-changer. Keeps track of a configurable amount of
your clipboard history. Super light-weight and keyboard-shortcut friendly. 

<https://maccy.app>

#### Bartender 3 ($14)

Simple app that allows you to control when and which apps are allowed to be on
your menu bar. Keep your important ones always visible, hide the rest. Plus you
can toggle them, as well show them on changes.

<https://www.macbartender.com>

#### Spectacle (free)

Control your window positions and size with super simple keyboard shortcuts.
Effectively brings the advantages of a tiling window manager to MacOS.

<https://www.spectacleapp.com>

#### Retina Display Manager (free and OSS)

Ridiciculously simple menu-bar app to change screen resolution. Plus has the
added benefit of unlocking many more resolutions (including true native
resolutions) than you can access via the preferences pane.

<https://github.com/avibrazil/RDM>

#### gfxCardStatus (free and OSS)

A menu-bar app that allows you to see which graphics card you are using
(integrated vs discrete) and which apps are triggering the switch. Super useful
to track down apps which force the power-hungry discrete card.

<https://gfx.io>

#### Next Meeting (free)

A menu-bar app that displays your next upcoming meeting (with minutes until
meeting).  Super configurable and super helpful to keep tabs on your calendar
at a glance.

<https://apps.apple.com/us/app/next-meeting/id1017470484>

#### Menu World Time (free)

A menu-bar app that displays any number of timezones. Super configurable. Since
I work with people in multiple time-zones this is a must have

<https://apps.apple.com/us/app/menu-world-time/id1446377255>

## Terminal Emulators

#### kitty (free and OSS)

Super fast, GPU-accelerated terminal emulator. Supports layouts, splits,
multiple copy/paste buffers, and is buttery smooth.

<https://sw.kovidgoyal.net/kitty/>

#### alacritty (free and OSS)

Ridiculously fast, GPU-accelerated terminal emulator. Extremely light-weight
and simple, doesn't have splits, layouts (can use tmux or screen for that),
lowest latency I have ever experienced in a terminal emulator.

<https://github.com/alacritty/alacritty>

## Terminal Tools

#### homebrewa (free and OSS)

The macOS package manager that should have been. Absolute must for software
development and installing open source software.

<https://brew.sh>

#### oh-my-zsh (free and OSS)

Take zsh to the next level with this group of plugins, configurations, themes.
Instantly transforms your terminal into something from the future and super
configurable.

<https://ohmyz.sh>

#### neovim (free and OSS)

A re-write of ViM with sane defaults, better architecture, and much cleaner and
extensible codebase.  Used to be the only vim with async plugins but it
pressured original vim to implement it.

<https://neovim.io>

#### thefuck (free and OSS)

Super simple premise: if you make a typo on a command and it failed, type
'fuck' and it will be auto-corrected. Use it all the time.

<https://github.com/nvbn/thefuck>

#### z (free and OSS)

Tremendously helpful at navigating your filesystem. Learns which directories
you work in the most and allows you to navigate with intuitive fuzzy-matched
commands

<https://github.com/rupa/z/>

#### zsh-autosuggestions (free and OSS)

Terminal suggestions on steroids (shadow predictions)

<https://www.github.com/zsh-users/zsh-autosuggestions>

#### the silver searcher (free and OSS)

Like grep but better, like ack but faster, best code searching tool. Honors
.gitignores, skips log files, and is blazing fast.

<https://github.com/ggreer/the_silver_searcher>

#### fzf (free and OSS)

A general purpose command-line fuzzy finder, useful for recursively
finding/opening/editing files. Works with commits, bookmarks, command history.
And is the basis for many useful plugins

<https://github.com/junegunn/fzf>

#### git-number (free and OSS)

Increases git productivity by 10x. Adds numbers to any files output by git (for
example git status) and allows you to perform commands based on the numbers
instead of having to type the full file-path. Don't think I could ever go back
to not using this.

<https://github.com/holygeek/git-number>

#### git-extras (free and OSS)

Adds many extremely useful commands to the git command. Turn into a swiss-army
knife.  For example tools to checkout upstream PRs, add co-authors, see commits
since, and many more.

<https://github.com/tj/git-extras>
